Usage: ./sana [OPTION] [ARG(S)] [OPTION] [ARG(S)]...
Aligns the biological networks of two species.
Example: ./sana -g1 yeast -g2 human
Above example aligns yeast and human for a duration of 5 minutes, optimizing s3.
Note that the running time and objective function is implicit (default arguments).
For more examples and information, see usage notes at bottom.

The following is a list of supported options.

OPTIONS, ARGS, AND DESCRIPTIONS GO HERE.

Sana Usage Notes:

The interface to using SANA is modeled after a standard linux command line
utility. However, there are no alternative ways to specify an option that is
shorter or more verbose. Options are never specified with a double-dash "--"
but always with a single dash. For instance, "-restart" is the way an option
is specified in SANA, not "--restart" or "-r".

As such, a user can invoke an [OPTION] in SANA, such as "-g1" and give that
option a value [ARG(S)], such as "yeast". Thus, to use SANA through the console
(aka the "terminal" or "command line"), the user must be familiar with the
synopsis of SANA.

Synopsis required to execute SANA in a console window:
 ./sana [OPTION] [ARG(S)] [OPTION] [ARG(S)]...
This might look like this:
 ./sana -g1 yeast -g2 human -restart -t 300
Equivalently this could be presented as:
 ./sana -restart -g2 human -t 300 -g1 yeast

Keep in mind, the order that the options appear do not affect the results of
SANA. However, if the same option is specified more than once, with differing
arguments for that same option when calling SANA, then all previous locations
where the arguments are specified are ignored while only the last will be
conisdered toward the alignment.

For example, if the user does:
 ./sana -g1 yeast -g2 human -t 300 -g1 RNorvegicus -g2 SPombe -t 20
Sana will register the argument of option -g1 as RNorvegicus, -g2 as SPombe,
and -t as 20 minutes, since all these arguments were the last to be specified
for these options which appeared more than once for the execution of SANA given
above.

SANA takes in one of four kinds of arguments for each option:
 string: 	A series of characters with no spaces.
		  Example: "yeast"
 double: 	A decimal number but can easily be considered an integer too.
		  Examples: "5 "4.2 "0.21"
 bool:		Takes no arguments. If a boolean option is specified, then SANA
		interprets that option as "true". If the option is not
		specified, then the default value is "false".
		  Examples: "-restart"
 vector:	A list of decimal numbers, preceeded by an integer that is
		equivalent to the number of decimal numbers in the list.
		  Example: "4 0.12 0.17 0.21 0.25"
			
More examples on using SANA:
 ./sana -tinitial 0.7 -tdecay 2
	Slower temperature schedule

 ./sana -restart -tnew 20 -iterperstep 30000000 -numcand 15 -tcand 2 -tfin 10
	Restart scheme. One hour total execution time. UPDATE: Restart Scheme
	in SANA is currently DEPRECATED.

 ./sana -ec 1 -s3 0
	Optimize EC.

 ./sana -ec 0 -wec 0.5 -sequence 0.5 -wecnodesim graphletlgraal
	Optimize L-GRAAL’s objective function and use α = 0.5.

 ./sana -o x
	Custom output file. Stores the output in x.

 ./sana -nodecweights 3 0 0 1
	Different node density weights.

 ./sana -g1 0syn -g2 5syn
	Networks from the Noisy yeast dataset.
	The networks are named syeast0, syeast05, syeast10, syeast15, syeast20, 
	and syeast25,
	where the numbers indicate the amount of noise.

 ./sana -g1 RNorvegicus -g2 SPombe
	Networks from the BioGRID dataset.
 
 ./sana -method lgraal -t 60 -alpha 0.5
	L-GRAAL (external algorithm called via wrapper) with α = 0.5.

 ./sana -method hubalign -alpha 0.3
	HubAlign (externl algorithm called via wrapper) with α = 0.3.

 ./sana -ec 1 -ics 0.5 -s3 3 -graphlet 1 -edgec 0.5
	Objective function combination. All the specified weights will be added
	together and renormalized to 1, so "-ics 0.5 -s3 3 -graphlet 1 -edgec
	0.5"
	will be renormalized to s3 weighing 0.60, ics weighing 0.10, graphlet weighing
	0.20, and edgec weighing 0.10.

 ./sana -ec 0 -go 1 -goweights 5 0 0 0 0 1
	GO5 measure as objective function.

 ./sana -g1 yeast -g2 human -goavg
	Evaluate GO Average measure.

SANA requires a number of options and arguments to execute. Options not
explicitely specified prior to the execution of SANA will take on default values
as arguments. Check the supported options listing above to find out what the
default arguments are.

Anytime a user tries to run SANA with a mispelled option or argument, or
otherwise an option or argument that is not supported, SANA will output an error
message detailing the option or argument that is not supported (Which would
mean, SANA will tell the user that the mispelled option or argument is not
supported in SANA).

Upon successful execution of SANA, the user will notice the console begin to
display many lines of text, followed by regular intervals of organized fields of
new text, which will gradually form a long table. Each line in the table
describes one "iteration" of SANA. SANA will complete after the given execution
time expires (given execution time can be set with the -t option) and also after
the current iteration completes. Once an execution of SANA completes, a report
is generated and saved to a given output file (-o option).

Description of the output generated by SANA appearing in the console window:
 Upon invoking SANA with the correct synopsis, SANA will output the list of
 options used, and the current values of those options (or arguments).
 
 SANA will specify it's options and arguments in the following order:
  1)String type arguments
  2)Decimal type arguments
  3)Boolean type arguments
  4)Vector type argumments
  
 Next, SANA initializes the graphs and measures. Then the type of weights SANA
 will be optimizing is displayed, along with each of the weight's importance.

 Promptly after, SANA provides information on it's current iteration, in units
 of 100 million. Therefore, every 100 million iterations SANA will output a lin
 of various data fields to the console. Each line consists of four fields of
 data, and may look as follows:
 
 13 (93.292s): score = 0.30742 P(-1e-05, 1.09013e-05) = 0.399587
  
 From left to right, what this means is, upon 1.3 billion iterations of SANA,
 or 93.292 seconds, the score of the current alignment of G1 and G2 is 0.30742,
 and the probability P, given initial temperature and rate of decay, of making a
 worse alignment following subsequent iterations of SANA, is 0.399587.
 
 SANA will continue giving output on it's current state of iteration until both
 the given time of execution runs out and the current 100 millionth iteration
 completes.
 
 Finally, SANA will output it's results to a file, and the final line of output
 from SANA will specify to the user the file name that contains the results.

Special thanks goes to:
	Lastname1, Firstname1
	Lastname2, Firstname2
	Lastname3, Firstname3

Report SANA bugs to (EMAIL_ADDRESS)
SANA home page: <http://www. ...>
More documentation can be found at:
	<http://www. ...>
	<http://www. ...>
	<http://www. ...>
